# Strange Attractor Project:

Project I created for Diff. Eq. in my senior year of high school. I used this 
to model various initial conditions of the [Rossler Attractor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R%C3%B6ssler_attractor). 
Since then I have extended this project to add the ability to integrate various 
other [strange attractors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attractor#Strange_attractor).

## Installation:

To use this module please install Python 2.7, python-dev, and pip for Python 2.x. 
Run this command to install them:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install python python-dev python-pip
```

Next, clone the repo and install the dependencies:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/MrFlynn/Strange-Attractor-Models.git
$ cd Strange-Attractor-Models/
$ [sudo] pip install -r requirements.txt
```
# Usage:

There are two main classes that are included: Attractor and RosslerAttractor.

- Attractor is the superclass. This class provides useful functions to other 
classes, like RosslerAttractor.
  - *euler_method*: This performs Euler's Method a given number of times on 
	the list of x, y, and z coordinates. It accepts an attractor function as an
	argument. You can find an example in the RosslerAttractor usage section.
  - *export_csv*: This exports the x, y, and z coordinate lists to a CSV file. 
	This might be helpful if you wish to import the data into another program.
  - *render_3d*: This method calls a function from *render.py* to give a three 
	dimentional render of the attractor. This uses the `matplotlib.pylot` library.

- RosslerAttractor is a subclass which implements the above functions. It also 
serves as an example for other attractors that could be implemented.
  - *rossler*: This is the rossler attractor function. You can read more about 
	it on the Wikipedia page I linked above.

	Example:
	```python
	x = RosslerAttractor(0.1,0.2,0.3,0.01,10000) # Starting values as well as step size and number of steps.
	x.euler_method(x.rossler) # Generate lists of x, y, & z values. euler_method argument is attractor function.
	x.export_csv('file.csv') # Exports CSV of data generated by euler_method method.
	x.render_3d() # Opens matplotlib.pyplot three dimensional render.
	```
